well howdy there internet people is Bo
again so tonight we're gonna talk about
the Princess of Wales
Princess Diana we're gonna talk about
her and what she can teach us about our
current diplomacy and hopefully our
future diplomacy now for the younger
people you may not understand she was a
phenomenon she was something else and
we're not just talking about the normal
poise and grace that goes along with
being a royal and all that nonsense
she was a trendsetter in a lot of ways
and I'm not talking about fashion I
think that we owe the trend of
celebrities showing up in the developing
world trying to help and it being
publicized
to her I think that every image of
Angelina Jolie or Kristin Davis wearing
Kevlar is because of her and this could
just be my perception of it but to me it
seemed like it started with her see she
had walked through social minefields she
had navigated the minefields of the
British tabloids but in 1997 in January
in Angola she walked through a literal
minefield and drew attention to it a lot
of very powerful imagery came out of it
and there she is wearing body armor no
it was kind of shocking to the world and
today in 1997 on this date she put out a
call to end the use of landmines 160
countries answered that call and signed
on eventually signed on to the treaty I
think it was successful because she
humanized
those that were impacted by it and for
those that don't understand why it's a
big deal
land mines are horrible the way it works
you put out a bunch of them about 20 in
a field their denial of area you don't
want try opposition coming that way so
you put out a bunch but only one or two
goes off then once they do the
opposition turns around they find
another way to go what's that mean
eighteen or nineteen of them are still
there eventually
whatever the dust-up is comes to a close
five years later some kid is playing
soccer and he finds it and he never
plays soccer yeah she talked to those
people those that were directly impacted
by she humanized and brought him into
the discussion and that's why her call
was successful that's why she succeeded
and when I was thinking about this today
it kind of stream-of-consciousness I
started thinking on something else I've
been trying to think of a good term for
this administration's foreign policy you
know a lot of administration's have cool
names for their foreign policy you know
Teddy Roosevelt had gunboat diplomacy
the Trump administration has landmine
diplomacy because it works the same way
they're putting it out there it's
covered up and unless you're really
paying attention you don't see it you
don't see what's gonna happen unless
you're really looking for it see what's
gonna happen is in a few years some
other administration is gonna come along
and they're gonna step on it I think
that's probably the most accurate term
for this administration's foreign policy
because it's and its global they're
putting out these landmines everywhere
and the only solution is for the next
administration to be like Princess Diana
and go to all of the people by people I
mean countries that were impacted by
this administration's foreign policy and
humanize them and bring them in the
discussion and what I'm talking about
this I'm not just talking about the ones
that we think of immediately yeah sure
Iran Iraq Syria Ukraine those the ones
that we can name easily remember the
beginning of the administration
every country pretty much south of our
border impacted by landmine diplomacy
any nation that hosts a military base
any nation where we are trying to
develop indigenous partners they're all
going to have to be reached they're all
going to have to be brought into the
discussion because they've all had land
mines buried around them the decisions
that this administration is making on
the world stage a lot of them they won't
be around to deal with the mess it's
going to be some other administration
and I hope that they have the courage to
walk through that land that minefield
but the sad thing about it the sad thing
about this analogy 160 countries
answered that call got rid of landmines
the US wasn't one of them anyway it's
just a thought y'all have a good night